docs/WIP.md, before:

# Work in progress

This page will disappear once the documentation is complete.

## Statistics guidelines

For each statistic, we need : 
- A file with 
  - a brief description of the statistic (see the article)
  - An explanation of the main geatures of the code, with code snippets and tips/notes
  - A standard of storage for this statitic
- A notebook with an example of how to compute this statitic on a mock data catalog

## Custom boxes

:::{admonition} TODO
:class: error
To note the things to do in the pipeline and doc
:::

:::{admonition} Question ?
:class: important
To note the questions to answer in the pipeline and doc
:::

## Some tips for redaction

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} Label1
Content 1
:::

:::{tab-item} Label2
Content 2
:::

::::

```{warning}
This is a warning
```

```{note}
This is a note
```

```{tip}
This is a tip
```

[Other admonitions](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syntax/admonitions.html)

[Markdown syntax extensions](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syntax/optional.html)


## TODO

- [ ] Add some emoji (it's fun ✨) ?

### Sections 

- [ ] Getting started
  - [ ] Installation
    - [ ] Requirements
    - [ ] Installation guide
  - [ ] Quickstart
- [ ] Pipeline
  - [ ] Overview
  - [ ] Galaxy-Halo model
  - [ ] Statistics
  - [ ] Emulator
  - [ ] Inference
  - [ ] Data
  - [ ] i/o functions (Here or somewhere else ?)
- [ ] Statistics
  - [ ] Densitysplit
  - [ ] Other statistics ?
- [ ] Credits
  - [ ] Contributors
  - [ ] Dependencies
- [ ] Tutorials
- [ ] API

Commit message:

Add documentation files for code structure and overview

docs/WIP.md, after:

# Work in progress

This page will disappear once the documentation is complete.

## Statistics guidelines

For each statistic, we need : 
- A file with 
  - a brief description of the statistic (see the article)
  - An explanation of the main geatures of the code, with code snippets and tips/notes
  - A standard of storage for this statitic
- A notebook with an example of how to compute this statitic on a mock data catalog

## Custom boxes

:::{admonition} TODO
:class: error
To note the things to do in the pipeline and doc
:::

:::{admonition} Question ?
:class: important
To note the questions to answer in the pipeline and doc
:::

:::{admonition} Project dependant
:class: caution
To note the things that depend on the project and need to be adapted
:::

## Some tips for redaction

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} Label1
Content 1
:::

:::{tab-item} Label2
Content 2
:::

::::

```{warning}
This is a warning
```

```{note}
This is a note
```

```{tip}
This is a tip
```

[Other admonitions](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syntax/admonitions.html)

[Markdown syntax extensions](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syntax/optional.html)


## TODO

- [ ] Add some emoji (it's fun ✨) ?

### Sections 

- [ ] Getting started
  - [ ] Installation
    - [ ] Requirements
    - [ ] Installation guide
  - [ ] Quickstart
- [ ] Pipeline
  - [ ] Overview
  - [ ] Galaxy-Halo model
  - [ ] Statistics
  - [ ] Emulator
  - [ ] Inference
- [ ] Code
  - [ ] Overview
  - [ ] sunbird
  - [ ] acm
  - [ ] projects (guidelines and organisation)
  - [ ] Data storage conventions
  - [ ] i/o functions (Here or somewhere else ?)
- [ ] Statistics
  - [ ] Densitysplit
  - [ ] Other statistics ?
- [ ] Credits
  - [ ] Contributors (see readme)
  - [ ] Dependencies
- [ ] Tutorials
- [ ] API
